docs/basic-usage/making-queues-tenant-aware.md, before:

---
title: Making queues tenant aware
weight: 6
---

The package can make queues tenant aware. To enable this behaviour, set the `queues_are_tenant_aware_by_default` key in the `multitenancy` config file to `true`.

When the behaviour is enabled, the package will keep track of which tenant is the current one when a job is dispatched. That tenant will automatically be made the current one inside that job.

## Make specific jobs tenant aware

If you don't want to make all jobs tenant aware, you must set the `queues_are_tenant_aware_by_default` config key to `false`. Jobs that should be tenant aware should implement the empty marker interface `Spatie\Multitenancy\Jobs\TenantAware`.

```php
use Illuminate\Contracts\Queue\ShouldQueue;
use Spatie\Multitenancy\Jobs\TenantAware;

class TestJob implements ShouldQueue, TenantAware
{
    public function handle()
    {
        // do the work
    }
}
```

## Making specific jobs not tenant aware

Jobs that never should be tenant aware should implement the empty marker interface `Spatie\Multitenancy\Jobs\NotTenantAware`.
 
```php
use Illuminate\Contracts\Queue\ShouldQueue;
use Spatie\Multitenancy\Jobs\NotTenantAware;

class TestJob implements ShouldQueue, NotTenantAware
{
    public function handle()
    {
        // do the work
    }
}
```

## When the tenant cannot be retrieved

If a tenant aware job is unable to retrieve the tenant, because the tenant was deleted before the job was processed, for example, the job will fail with an instance of `Spatie\Multitenancy\Exceptions\CurrentTenantCouldNotBeDeterminedInTenantAwareJob`.

On the other hand, a job that is not tenant aware will make no modifications to the current tenant, which may still be set from a previous job. As such, it is important that your jobs make no assumptions about the active tenant unless they are tenant aware.

Commit message:

Jobs (not?) tenant aware using the config
https://github.com/spatie/laravel-multitenancy/discussions/235

docs/basic-usage/making-queues-tenant-aware.md, after:

---
title: Making queues tenant aware
weight: 6
---

The package can make queues tenant aware. To enable this behaviour, set the `queues_are_tenant_aware_by_default` key in the `multitenancy` config file to `true`.

When the behaviour is enabled, the package will keep track of which tenant is the current one when a job is dispatched. That tenant will automatically be made the current one inside that job.

## Make specific jobs tenant aware

If you don't want to make all jobs tenant aware, you must set the `queues_are_tenant_aware_by_default` config key to `false`. Jobs that should be tenant aware should implement the empty marker interface `Spatie\Multitenancy\Jobs\TenantAware` or should be added to the config `tenant_aware_jobs`.

```php
use Illuminate\Contracts\Queue\ShouldQueue;
use Spatie\Multitenancy\Jobs\TenantAware;

class TestJob implements ShouldQueue, TenantAware
{
    public function handle()
    {
        // do the work
    }
}
```

or, using the config `multitenancy.php`:
```php
'tenant_aware_jobs' => [
    TestJob::class,
],
```

## Making specific jobs not tenant aware

Jobs that never should be tenant aware should implement the empty marker interface `Spatie\Multitenancy\Jobs\NotTenantAware` or should be added to the config `not_tenant_aware_jobs`.
 
```php
use Illuminate\Contracts\Queue\ShouldQueue;
use Spatie\Multitenancy\Jobs\NotTenantAware;

class TestJob implements ShouldQueue, NotTenantAware
{
    public function handle()
    {
        // do the work
    }
}
```

or, using the config `multitenancy.php`:
```php
'not_tenant_aware_jobs' => [
    TestJob::class,
],
```


## When the tenant cannot be retrieved

If a tenant aware job is unable to retrieve the tenant, because the tenant was deleted before the job was processed, for example, the job will fail with an instance of `Spatie\Multitenancy\Exceptions\CurrentTenantCouldNotBeDeterminedInTenantAwareJob`.

On the other hand, a job that is not tenant aware will make no modifications to the current tenant, which may still be set from a previous job. As such, it is important that your jobs make no assumptions about the active tenant unless they are tenant aware.
